I have made a new version of chess,
where every few turns you pick one of
three random effects that change the
game in some way, like swapping the
pieces or blowing things up or freezing
certain parts of the board. There are
over 70 rules, so it's constantly
changing. I'm calling it free choice
chess. And I'm going to be honest, this
turned out like a lot cooler than I
expected. I didn't know if this would be
interesting at all. So, let's begin my
match versus Caddy. And a disclaimer,
Caddy and I suck real bad at chess. I
apologize if you actually are good at
this game.
>> [sighs]
>> Caddy Johnson. I do not know what your
last name is.
>> You couldn't guess. Caddy Pittsburgher
Lewis. Oh my god, you got it.
>> Are you ready for chess? Let's chess it
up.
>> I'm starting with the classic Queen's
Gambit. Let's go, you're up. You said
you weren't good at the Queen's Gambit
black side. Take that.
he knows the Queen's Gambit.
Now, here is where the new rules will
start. It's been three turns, so Caddy
is presented with three random rules to
pick from. You can see here that some of
them are instant effects, like this one
that drops mines on two different
squares. But some effects happen over a
certain number of turns, like ice
physics is going to change the piece
movement for seven turns. Or treasure
chest is going to create a random square
on the board that will promote a piece
when that expires. Caddy gets to pick
one of these, and then he makes his
actual chess move. Okay, select a random
empty square. The first piece to enter
is promoted. Watch this. Okay, generate
random empty Let's go.
Love that All right, marking it
with a treasure chest. Okay, man, fine.
Yeah, okay. All right, do you know what
a promotion is? Let's just double check
that real quick. What does it mean for
like I does a pawn become like You ever
work for a girl boss boss Caddy?
Many times, yeah. I love a girl boss
boss yeah. They run this
dude. And that's what a queen is in
chess. So, a promotion would mean you
automatically advance to a queen. All
right, you're up. I'm just going to do
everything you do. I'm just going to
mirror you, and then I'm going to it'll
be I'll I'll play [music] better, I
think.
>> Okay, well, I'm going to park my bishop
here, and I will get a queen in six
turns. Go ahead. So, you got to keep his
ass in there for six turns? Yeah. I
mean, that's kind of good for you. That
means my my guy is stuck there. Or you
get in there, but that's going to be
hard. I'm getting in there, bro. Good
luck. It's not hard. Watch this.
I'm going to get him.
Horse one, watch a horse race. Whoever's
horse places higher gets a knight in a
chosen empty square. Hobbit battle, only
pawns can be moved. Kind of funny. Going
woke, all pieces in the right half of
the board get pushed to the left one
square.
>> I want to see a horse race bad. Look,
for the sake of not immediately cutting
you a horse race, I'm sorry. I'm doing
Hobbit battle. Only pawns can be moved.
Cuz I'm moving this pawn up, and then
you literally can't move your bishop.
I'm just going to kill him next turn.
But I could kill your pawn now, right?
Oh, I can't move my bishop. Dude, come
Okay. All right. You got to admit, it's
kind of rips. All right, now I see it. I
see what you're doing. But but then, if
I do the
Now I'm ready. All right, go ahead. Kill
my guy. See what happens. Okay, yeah,
fair enough. I mean, we'll trade. I
mean, I'll take your bishop. I'm fine
with that. Okay, you're good pick.
Hold on, you got to pick
Portal three, pick two squares. End of
every turn, those two squares swap. Do
you like add portals?
>> [laughter]
>> Living bomb, pick a friendly piece. If
it's alive when this rule expires, it
explodes and kills all adjacent. That's
six turns, and then both players swap
their kings with a friendly bishop or
knight of their choice. No, I'm bombing
it. And I'm going to send Who's my
craziest guy? This guy right here is my
craziest horse. There we go. He explodes
in six turns. It's going to kill
everybody. Okay, here's the thing. If
that thing explodes next to my king, you
win, which is stupid.
>> Yeah, I know. I know. That's why I
picked him. He's my crazy horse.
Depending on how this turns out, it'll
be a bummer if you have the last turn
before this. Cuz then you could just
throw your guy in there and he blows up.
Okay, all right, I'm in.
>> Yes, you got to go get him. Go kill my
crazy horse. Wait, you know what I just
realized though, only pawns can be
moved. You can't move
My guy is stuck there. Next to you,
Caddy. I got three turns. It's fine.
It's fine. I got three turns. It's fine.
It's fine. Watch this. Pow. Now what?
I'm leaving my bishop here for the
promotion. You know what? I'm just going
to take more of the center board. Look,
I will say I barely know chess, but
taking like control of the center is
apparently extremely important.
>> Yeah, that seems good. So, I'm going to
do what you did. Okay, constipation.
Bishops and knights cannot move. Back
that up, all pawns move backward
one square if it's open. That's funny
right now. I kind of like [music] that.
That's good. The horse race is back in.
I would love to see a horse race right
now, but I do feel like that'll come up
later, and for the basic of the video,
that's probably better for that. Like
Oh, oh wait, hold on. I get a promotion.
My bishop here does get to be promoted
to queen. Thank you very much. Now, you
might be thinking certainly there's some
feature that'll do that automatically.
Oh.
>> Which is why I got to scroll down and
look at this giant grid and look for E2,
which is my white bishop. Let's see what
Oh, here. And then I change the piece to
white queen one. Ladies and gentlemen, I
got a second queen. You know what? Horse
race. Let's do it. Thank god. Okay, cuz
somebody pointed out if you picked the
constipation, my crazy horse is stuck
there, and everybody has to run away
from it.
Thank god we did horse race. All right,
let's horse race it.
What year are you feeling for a horse
race? Go on, 1993.
>> [laughter]
>> This feels too far back.
>> You like that?
>> I get one through five, you get eight
through 12. All right? And we just hope
it's one OF THOSE.
THEY'RE OFF.
OKAY, I'm on right side. Let's go. Let's
go. We look like we have an early lead
right now. I think the middle one is
destroying everyone out. It's a early
runner. It's fine. He's got it. It's
fine. That dumb idiot's going to gas
himself out, dude.
Do you remember which color was which? I
They got the numbers on the side, right?
Sure. Usually, except in 1993. I don't
know if they had the technology. I
should have picked a newer year. We need
them to show a leaderboard. How would
anybody be able to follow this in 1993?
One act I presume that's nine, right?
But the rest aren't Roman. Why is it
that Why is there one horse with Roman
numerals?
>> [laughter]
>> It's got to be nine, right? Nine
victory? Like is the nine would flip?
Like horse would like If you hadn't
picked an ancient horse race, they would
have been using English numbers, Caddy.
When you were in college and you were
watching this live, were you able to
follow? Okay, wait, hold on. One is
right behind, by the way. Get the horse.
Oh, HE'S HE'S SPEEDING UP. HE'S SPEEDING
UP. HE'S SPEEDING UP. HE'S SPEEDING UP.
>> NO, HE'S TIRED. HE'S TIRED. He's very
No way, dude. Eleven Wait, that's
eleven. Is it eleven or one? No, it's
one. THAT'S TWO ONES. LET'S GO.
>> [screaming]
>> AN ABSOLUTE SHOCKER AT THE BREEDERS'
CUP. LET'S GO.
All right, horse goes
here. I mean, I have two queens. I may
as well just like kill your pawn. Come
on, man. What You've got, by the way,
two turns. Oh, I know. You don't got to
tell me. My horse is ready.
>> [laughter]
>> No, my horse is ready.
>> One of those turns is yours, and then
it's my turn. You have one turn left.
>> Oh, I THOUGHT IT WAS FOUR TURNS EACH.
NOPE, it's total turns. OH, NO. HELP.
GET HIM OUT OF HERE. OH, NO.
WAIT, he's going to die. Classic. You
actually are going to have to blow up a
bunch of your own people. This is great.
Oh, maybe he could go
Oh, no.
Here I guess, we'll try to minimize the
damage. Look, warning. It's time. I'm
going hog wild. Check that out. I didn't
really have a plan there. Okay. Oh, your
guy blows up, by the way. No, but if I
living bomb him, CAN I SAVE HIM? WHAT
GOES IN FIRST? CAN I DOUBLE BOMB HIM?
OKAY, I have He's a friendly piece. It
expired, but then I can put the new bomb
on him. What's his first? Is it the turn
or is it the the horse?
>> [gasps and laughter]
>> The way it really should work is that
the horse blows up. However,
for the sake See, this is why Look,
makes you think, right? This is why I
don't have an automatic rules engine.
Now we can flow. If you pick living bomb
again, I'll let you extend the bomb on
that. I think that's fine. I'll still
probably kill it, because I have two
queens.
>> All right, I'm going to pick living
bomb, but I'm going to pick this horse
now. So, this horse is the bomb horse.
>> Well, this one dies.
Yeah, so this one's dead. You could kill
him.
Okay, captured and blows up both nearby
pawns. That's fine. I got another bomb
horse, and I moved him, so he goes right
there. Caddy, what was the point of
that? Now I'll just kill it.
Oh, you do it. Got you.
I guess that was my second queen. Okay,
Pac-Man style, wild. Pieces can go
around the side of the board. Oh my god.
YEAH, PICK THAT. That sounds fun.
>> Yes, perfect. Good. Okay. So, pieces can
wrap. What I'm thinking about here is my
queen would go up like this, and then
would wrap up to here. Okay, I can't
kill your queen. Wait, where Where can
your queen then? Your queen can do it.
Wait, you're I'm in check actually now.
Yeah, I was going to say, wait, left and
right, but The way I'm interpreting this
is that your queen has me in check right
now. I'm just moving this up. Right, and
the queen is the one with the spikes.
Yes. Okay. Knew it. I don't know
what to do. I'm going to move my That
isn't really doing much. Move my pawn
up.
You're up. Second chance, when any piece
dies, there's a 50% chance it's revived
in a random empty square. Any piece that
reaches the back line can promote.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. So, if you just get I mean, you
That means your pieces have to get to my
side of the board, but they can promote.
Living bomb again. I got to go living
bomb. You have got it, Caddy. That's my
favorite one. All right. No, I love that
one. Wait a minute. You have that horse
right at me. Oh, Bomb horse. Bomb
horse. Bomb horse. All right, all right,
go. Uh
this is concerning. Yeah, it's your
turn. All right, eight turns left. We
That means we each get four. So, I'll be
able to move before it blows up. That's
helpful.
>> Yeah, I'm going to pick this dude.
I'm going to go tiny, a little baby
teeny tiny move. We're going to go right
there. I'm going after bomb horse. That
thing needs to die. You're not getting
bomb horse, bro. Bomb horse isn't that
powerful. It's like a guy at the gym who
just keeps talking about how he could
bench
>> [laughter]
>> a whole lot, but doesn't ever do it.
>> You should make it so that the bomb
horse dies, the bomb blows up. It would
take [music] a total of one minute to
add an explosion in a YouTube edit. It
would take so long [laughter]
to code that. Hello chess.com. Kony, do
you know that the chess.com is currently
analyzing your game play? Probably a
grandmaster running the account.
>> if I kill your horse, then you could
kill my horse. So
>> Are you going to run like a coward? I
don't even think you can
run anywhere. Oh, you can move all the
way back. You can move back to your like
to your guys, but then you just risk
blowing them up again. So far
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, I I've only blown up my own dudes,
but that's a risk I'm willing to horses.
Gigachad aura, when this expires all
pieces adjacent to a king die. That's
funny.
>> [laughter]
>> Get up in their faces. All your pieces
slide forward until they hit an empty
square. [laughter]
Wait, that's funny cuz then I'm chasing
down bomb horse.
>> You would definitely get bomb horse, I
think.
>> I'm debating Gigachad aura, and here's
why. When this expires all pieces
adjacent to a king die. That's in five
turns. It's not that long.
You would then have basically two bombs
horse or king. You have two bombs in
your back line. I'm doing that. Gigachad
aura, okay. Oh my god.
>> turns the kings are going to blow
everyone up.
>> Wait, but now you have to move, too.
Bomb horse gets in there. Yeah, that's
fine. Look, check this out. I move my
king right here. There's no threat now.
Wait. You've got
>> Wait.
All right, [laughter] let's just let's
just wrap it up. In four turns your
horse blows up and your king kills
everything around it. Oh, no. Okay, hold
on.
>> Wait. Horse goes here. I'm going to I'm
sure there's something better. I'm just
going to get up in there.
I'm just getting up in there. Okay,
charge. All pieces move one square
towards the enemy if open. Going woke.
All pieces in the right half get pushed
to the left and tornado pick an empty
square. If any piece can move to that
square, it must. Okay, that's kind of
up because you could
Wait, you [laughter] can put this
>> Yeah, I could. I could. Yeah, hold on.
Oh, that's a bad one. We're going to go
tornado, and that's going to go How many
ways does king move? It's one, right?
Yes. One one one square in every
direction.
>> But he can't go full diagonal. Okay. So
if I go there, all right, tornado is
going to go here. Oh, PAC-MAN
OVER.
>> [laughter]
>> WHAT WAS YOUR
PLAN HERE? I GO HERE. You go there, blow
up and die. Oh, you were doing the combo
to one-shot the king. Okay, that's
smart. If you had Pac-Man, I will hand
it to you that would have been a really
really sick win. Tornado my king and
then blow it up with bomb horse. Okay. I
had it, bro. Bomb horse had the play.
>> Damn. Okay.
>> Damn.
>> Bomb horse goes
Wait, holy That's a problem.
That's a big big problem. I have to
move. Oh, boy. Okay, that's still
working.
>> Oh, no. So let me just make this clear.
Tornado is here. I have to move my king
here.
>> I have to move my king here. The king
blow Oh, no. To bad. King blows up,
kills pawn and rook. Bomb horse blows
up, kills pawn PAWN BISHOP BISHOP. OH,
DUDE.
>> HOWEVER, my king has blown up my queen
as well. We are two single chads. Oh,
you killed your bishop and your pawns.
Okay.
>> bishop and my pawn They're both dead,
too. Damn, this is barren. I still
have tornado, and I just realized that
means my king is stuck on it.
>> [laughter]
>> Your turn. All right, I'm going to kill
this guy.
White turn. Back that up. Pawns
move backward one square. Not very
useful right now. Portal three. Pick two
squares. At the end of every turn those
two squares swap. I could get your king
warped to my area, but I don't know
>> Living bomb.
Living bomb. You could have a bomb
horse. It looks so fun.
>> [laughter]
>> I don't know if you have a way to like
[music] consistently stop my knight. I
think I bomb
>> [laughter]
>> No way he's going to steal my
>> I want
>> he's stealing bomb horse. There's almost
100 rules that I added. It shouldn't be
bomb horse and horse races all the time.
I'm doing living bomb bomb horse.
Okay, it's my turn.
>> Where are you going to send him? This
might seem crazy. [music]
I'm moving bomb horse here.
I want bomb horse out of the way. I want
to protect my bomb horse until [music]
he's closer to exploding, and then he
will advance. Illegal? Wait, why was
that illegal? Hold on.
Oh, I'd super dumb. Wow, I'm sorry.
Yeah, yeah. You know why I'm going to
actually move my horse here, my bomb
horse, is because that way if you
castle, I kill your rook, which I think
I'm okay with. Well, I'm going to I'm
going to go here. Isn't bomb horse dead
now? Right now? I mean, only if I don't
leave, but bomb horse can just come up
here, man. I'm going to kill that
horse. Kamikaze. When a piece
dies, 25% chance that all adjacent
pieces die.
>> Wait. No, don't activate [music]
that. We have too much
>> Wait.
Blood sacrifice. Players pick one of
their own [music] pieces to die after
every turn for three turns. That's I
mean, all our pawns would die probably.
On hobbit slaughter, only pawns can die.
Wait, that would invalidate So drastic.
[laughter]
bomb horse. Well, well, well.
Hobbit slaughter it is.
>> Oh, beans, man.
>> That was a good rule you made. I like
that one. That's really fun. Okay, bomb
has been defused. Well, it has not been
defused. I'm going to blow up all of
your children, Kony. Unless we get out
of there, get Oh, they can't move.
>> [laughter]
>> No, feel free to move them forward. Oh,
>> What the hell was that? Friendly fire.
Bro, they scream so bad.
Uh all right, no.
It's cuz the turn. I have him selected.
This guy hits that guy. Pawn dead.
Wait,
>> What's up now, bomb guy? Huh? Only pawns
can die sucks. This is way too powerful.
Yeah, man. That's a very powerful thing
to do. I literally can't do anything
about your your rook. You just killed
all of my pawns, and I Yeah, man. Go
ahead and move around a little if you
want. You can you can wiggle your guys,
but I'm sorry. Well, I'm not
apologizing. I looked at chat. I'm kind
of backed up against a bomb horse right
now. I looked at chat.
>> and they're all saying D5. All right,
look. I won't look at chat again.
>> And we'll say next turn we both get to
look at chat and ask them for advice.
I'm moving D5 cuz now you're in check.
You have to move your king. But my king
can't die. So I not in check, though.
I actually get to kill this guy.
>> [groaning and screaming]
>> Early promotion. Pawns promote on the
sixth row instead of the eighth.
Absolutely not giving that to you. Going
woke again. Queens become bishops. I'm
going to do born again Christian. All
queens become bishops. Everybody's
saying kill him. King is still in check.
The way I would interpret wacky three
choice chess chat is that if a king
can't die for three more turns, then
check doesn't matter because he's not
under threat.
>> He's not in check.
>> Chess.com is saying, "Mr. Doug, I would
suggest killing the king." I'm going to
move my rook to here. Unfortunately,
this is the end of my pawns. So I'm just
going to kill yours. Bomb horse blows
up. And goodbye pawns. My babies.
Dude, the only pawns can die [music]
thing is so I I would be in
check, but I'm not. The horse doesn't
die. Wait, if it's alive when this turn
expires, it explodes and kills all
adjacent pieces comboed with only pawns
can die. That is a great point. The
horse explodes and stays alive, Kony.
[laughter]
All right, we are so
dude. Even though I have you in
double check, you're not in check.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah. Okay, I'm being honest. You get
one move to figure this out.
>> [laughter]
>> You get one move to figure this out.
Yeah, you're in check. I don't know I
I wasn't going to say it. I was hoping
you wouldn't notice. Okay, I'm moving
chat would be Okay, I want to ask chat.
I'm going to assume it's better to move
G rather than All right, let's let's see
what you got. Wait.
>> Column swap. All pieces in two random
columns are swapped. Okay, risky, but
that could just result in a win, I
guess. Anti-camping. Pick an enemy
piece, swap it with a random friendly
piece. They deserved it. One random
non-king piece is killed of either side.
That's if you want to just really go for
it. Anti-camping is win, is someone said
in chat. Yeah, man. Wait, the game's
over. Okay. All right, so you're doing
anti-camping. What is the piece of mine
that you're swapping with?
>> This rook right here. Rook E E1. Okay.
All right, so selecting the rook, and
now I will roll the random die to see
>> die. Roll the random die. Roll the
random die. Random black piece. It is
swapping with that rook. So let me
ignore turn.
Swap them. God damn it. Hiya.
Let's go.
>> [screaming]
>> OH. Play of the game. That feels bad.
It's over. I got it. It's the POWER OF
THE BOMB HORSE, BABY.
OKAY.
But he's in check. Yeah, but I'm dead.
That doesn't matter. Thank you,
chess.com dot com for the 10 gifties.
>> oh, chess.com only gift subs to winners,
huh? Is that true, chess.com? Let's not
give money to the guy who spent 50 hours
making a thing that barely works. Kony,
best of three, yeah? Obviously, yeah.
Let's run it. All right.
>> Reset that board. My chat said I mated
you. What does that mean, Doug? Um when
a Kony and a Doug love each other very
much. Um okay. The thing is, you'll
figure this out soon when you get a
little older and your bomb horses start
dropping.
Let's do the same thing. I will play as
white. I go first. Queen's gambit, go.
I'm going to rook's gambit or bishop's
gambit. That's what it's called. I'm
going to do the Kony gambit. Call down
lightning. Mark a random empty square.
When this expires, whoever controls that
square chooses an enemy piece to die.
Ooh, I like that.
>> become like Zeus. Important
clarification. For things like that,
where an instant piece dies, kings are
exempt because otherwise this is just
kind of stupid.
>> course. I didn't I just for the sake of
making this like not a way too annoying
with the amount of text. It doesn't say
in quotes king not a but that is
relevant there. Yeah. Yeah, that'd be
dumb. 50% chance for a free rook in a
random empty square. Your opponent gets
that. Pick a random empty square. The
first piece to enter it is promoted.
>> Now you did start last time with
treasure chest. You could run it again
and give me another queen. I'm going to
call down lightning cuz I get to move
first, so I can position for it. So
let's call down lightning, pick a random
thing. Let me scroll down. It says E4.
Okay. Oh, son of a So whoever
>> controls that when [music] this thing
expires, you get to kill any enemy
piece. And now I'm going to go I'll put
this dude here. Wait, it's three turns
left. So it's I'm going to have it on my
turn. So I'm going to do this. I'm
moving my knight up. Okay, so you go
there. I'm going to do early promotion.
Pawns promote on the sixth row instead
of the eighth. Um I move knight here.
That gives me the lightning power, and I
look directly at your queen in the eyes
and she blinks once right BEFORE
LIGHTNING CRASHES DOWN, CONNIE. BOOM.
OH, NO, my queen.
>> [laughter]
>> You know, you could have sent a pawn to
do that, by the way. Stop acting like
you're so smart and you notice all these
things. I have I'm going to kill your
Now your horse is dead. I killed you I I
cut your horse up and I ate him. I'll
keep it a buck, as kids and Ludwig say,
that was stupid of me. That was pretty
dumb. Mr. Freeze, pick one column, all
pieces in it are frozen and immune, so
they cannot die. Pawns with Viagra
>> [laughter]
>> Okay. Pawns can attack left and right. I
don't know who wrote that name. And
treasure chest, empty square, if you
enter it, you get promoted.
>> We got a little fight club going on in
the middle. I like pawns with Viagra.
Let's trap this out. Take this. I think
You know what I do? I think I just I
just I go I just go right back. I think
I just take my I'm going to do that to
you. Charge, all your pieces move
forward one square towards the enemy of
open. That is kind of funny. Gigachad
war, when this expires, all pieces of
Jason to a king die. Drafted for battle,
both players swap their king with a
friendly bishop or knight of their
choice. You know what? Just for the sake
of little excitement, I'm doing charge.
The way we're going to do this is like
from the front line to the back.
Everybody moves forward one if open. I'm
not even going to think about this too
much. All right, activating All right,
and it is now my turn and I take.
>> Yeah. Kind of sick, actually. [music]
I'm going to bring out the horse. You do
know it's a a regular horse, right? It's
not a bomb. I just love the horse. I
want to see him gallop. You do seem to
like horses a lot. I'm going to I'm
going to get my horse in there as well.
Your turn. You must make a move that
captures an enemy if possible. Pick an
enemy piece, swap it with a random
friendly piece.
I could just take a one in like 10 shot
to just kill you outright. I could just
swap your queen and pray to God it's a
rook or my king. Are we saying kings are
immune to that?
>> We should now. Yeah. I believe that was
one of the
Yeah. My pawns kill left and right. So,
That is actually anti-camping
and I'm going to pick You pick one of my
Okay, you're picking my queen and then a
random one of yours they swap. Okay, let
me see. Random black piece is black rook
two. Doug, I hate to do this. I hate to
say this. It's been a great game.
>> No, no, no, no, no, no, no, hold on,
hold on. King like King shouldn't King
shouldn't not be available for an
insta-kill after a swap, right?
>> [screaming]
>> Wait, people are saying that's not a
fair trade. What are you talking about?
Wait, my queen is up here. I forgot you
swapped my queen into your back line.
Hey, what? That was like the whole
thing.
>> No, that's really bad.
>> Wait, hold on, hold on, hold on, hold
on. Invulnerability potion, two random
pieces on your team cannot die. Call
down lightning, mark a random empty
square, [music] and portal storm, two
random non-king pieces swap place at the
end of every turn. I am going to do
invulnerability potion, Connie. Okay. If
my queen becomes invulnerable, I can win
right now, basically. No, you can move
one.
>> She has been captured by my my my loyal
troopers. Then we're doing the two
random pieces on my team. First one,
this pawn. Okay, not exactly what I was
hoping for. Another pawn who
Very impressive. Your queen is is stuck
there, by the way. She can't go
anywhere. Dude, if I had a bunch of like
my agents in your jail randomly, I'm
fine with that, man. That's not like a
problem to me. You're gathering intel,
but to what end? If you try to move at
all, I'm going to kill you. Your lady is
stuck there, man. Rook up here, boom.
Oh. Yeah, now it's like I have a rook
and a queen in jail with you, Connie.
Soon I'm going to have the entire United
Doug States military in your jail,
Connie. I I would like Get that guy out
of here, man. I hate that guy. Here you
go, king. King go here.
We will make you win. No, I don't want
to look at chat. I want to do it out of
the
god honest dumbness of my head. Somebody
said take the bishop. I forgot king King
was on queen duty, too. Yeah. Yeah,
okay. But I want to point out, the power
of this move is only possible because of
how invincible my pawns are right now.
I'm going to move my queen and kill your
bishop. Thank you very much. You get a
roll.
Chat, don't tell him that. Watch this.
We go moving up corporate ladder. Okay,
so you're picking two pieces in the same
column. Okay, you are swapping my bishop
Yeah.
>> and my queen. Okay.
>> Yeah, he can't do anything now. Okay,
that was your rule. It is now your turn.
I'm going to kill that guy. I think I
just do this.
I got to move my horse. Bottomless pit,
pick an empty square for the rest of the
game, [music] any piece who enters it
dies.
>> [laughter]
>> Oh my god. Okay,
yep, rest of the game. Chat, what's a
good spot for bottomless pit? I'm
definitely pitting you.
Wait. Why the would I do that? Are
you insane?
>> [laughter]
>> Why would I just throw my pawn into a
pit? What's wrong with you? I'm doing
C6. You might think this is dumb and
idiot, but I'll let you know I smart.
I'm doing bottomless pit, C6. You need
to get queen out of here. Also, if I
move it here, that way I protect my
pawn. I'm going to move here, yeah. All
right, your turn. My horse is scared.
He retreats.
Dude, my queen is just looking right at
that bottomless pit. I was going to say,
she she's looking up into the left like,
"God damn, I wonder what's in there."
Dude, you know, if I hadn't put a
pit there, I would have an
immediate attack on your rook that is
unpunished and instead there's a pit in
the way. Go over the pit, jump the pit.
You can't jump the pit. The rules say if
you land on it. Wait, is that what it
said? Wait, did it say enter? Hold on,
people are giving me No, it doesn't.
Everybody was wrong. Pick an empty
square for the rest of the game, any
piece who enters it dies. I really
thought it said landed, too. Phew, I'm
safe. I thought I was ahead for some
reason. That means I'm just going to go
for pawn energy right now. I'm moving
pawn up, going to get your guy out of
there. Living bomb, living bomb is back,
nine turns.
Bomb horse. I'm kind of feeling a bomb
horse here, bro. I got to be honest,
like that's my That is [music] That's
not my ultimate ability, but it is my
secondary. That's like my W key. I'm
imagining the comments being like, "This
game seems really cool, but they just
ended up playing bomb horse for 3
hours." [laughter]
Bomb horse is the meta. That is the meta
game. We go bomb horse here. That's my
level two ability.
>> Okay, okay. You've got Yep, you've got
to keep that thing alive for nine turns,
but good luck. You know what it is?
Okay, because it's an odd number of
turns though with nine, it does mean you
have the last move.
>> Yep, it sure does. Which is concerning.
I do need to kill your bomb horse.
Parry, rock, paper, scissors for a
chance to stop any attack. So, I
want to do parry cuz that's awesome. The
problem
>> That would be very fun. Yeah, the
problem with it is that I need to kill
your bomb horse and I'm worried that you
would parry it and then move in and kill
me.
>> [laughter]
>> But But think about it this way, [music]
bomb horse, you would parry each
explosion individually, right? So, we
would have to play rock, paper, scissors
on each explosion. So, that's like you
get a good chance of dodging, right?
Like
>> Oh, I didn't think about that. Do I Can
you parry a
Yeah, parry a bomb horse? Okay. Yeah,
let's do that. Okay, parry, I'm sending
it. I think I'm going to get up
in here with my rook, bro. Wait, hold
on. My I am going to try to move my rook
north and kill your pawn. We have to
RPS. Is there like a site for this? I
think we pull up each other's streams
and on Discord we say 3 2 1 and then we
see what the result was. Okay, got it.
>> So, it's on shoot, yeah? 3 2 1 shoot?
>> Yes, 3 2 1 shoot. Let's do it.
>> 3 2
1 shoot. Okay, tie. Tie, tie, tie. This
is cool because an infinite number of us
is going to do rock, paper, scissors
down the chain. All right, ready? 3 2 1
shoot. Run it again. Let's go.
>> God damn it. Let's go. Let's go. You
would.
>> Big attack on the pawn. It's the secret
chat. I don't know any other moves. I
didn't even like that pawn. Rook moves
up, takes pawn. Let's go. Your turn.
Okay, so right now my guy is going to
try I try to send the bishop to kill the
pawn. Pull up my stream. Let's get it.
>> Okay, all right. All right, ready when
you are. 3 2 1 go.
God damn. Okay, I think I see a pet. 3 2
go.
You I hate Doug Doug, man. This is
so stupid.
>> You know why I didn't code in all the
moves to my app? It's cuz I've been
spending 3,000 hours grinding rock,
paper, scissors. Game theory.
>> [laughter]
>> I am concerned about your bomb horse. I
forgot about that thing. In four turns,
the game is over. I wouldn't say the
game is over. You're not going to get
your I might die. It might be though.
Yeah, [laughter] by the way, if he
doesn't move If he does not move, you
die, to be clear.
>> [laughter]
>> Um the stupid pit, man. I think it hurts
me. I don't think the pit is good.
>> bro. It's a moat for my king. Hold on, I
did not look at chat. I think I see it.
I move my bishop up here and the reason
is cuz then I'm attacking bomb horse and
put you in check. Ooh, look at that.
Okay, you have to get your king out of
there because of my rook and then my
bishop kills bomb horse. That being
said, it is your turn.
>> Oh, I see. Shortstop, pieces may move a
maximum of one square per turn. Okay,
never mind.
>> [laughter]
>> Well, things have changed quite a bit,
haven't they? All right, you ready? Did
you pick it? I'm picking it and uh-oh,
here he comes.
>> [laughter]
>> Here he comes. Wait,
hold on.
Pick a friendly piece that's alive. Oh,
this is my last turn to get rid of bomb
horse. He's on the way. I can't do
anything.
Here comes bomb horse.
>> Wait, hold on, hold on, hold on. What
are we saying? He's in check. He is in
check. No, no, he's not in check cuz my
rook can't
>> in check, bro. I'm not in Stop listening
to your chat. They're stupid. Listen,
bomb horse to shortstop. Bomb horse is
going to move. You can't kill him. I am
going to allow this because it is way,
way more interesting. Under the rule of
shortstop, only one move per thing.
Probably it should just mean horses
cannot move, but what we are going to do
is that a horse can move up, down, left,
or right one square. It is simulating
the first square of their move. Editors,
you can put a note in the video that
says
crick, I don't care. All right, let's
go. I'm moving my pawn up. I'm going to
try to get to promotion, dude.
>> Bomb horse is going to attempt to go
down and kill that pawn. All right, I
get to parry it potentially.
>> the stream. Bring up the stream.
[laughter] All right, let's do it. This
one This rule sucks. All right, all
right.
>> do it. 3 2 1 go.
Okay. I hate this piece of All
right, 3 2 1 go. Okay, you win.
Successful attack. So now your horse is
going to blow up. That's not an attack,
by the way. So your horse can't parry
itself. So he blows up, but that attack
on my horse
>> can't parry the explosion?
>> You think you think your own horse can
look at the bomb planted in his chest
under surgery and then pull out rock,
paper, scissors and parry it? You think
you can parry A BOMB PLANTED IN YOUR
CHEST? He spit it out and ran away.
Yeah, that's what he
Wait, did your horse die like He did. He
explode. All right, he explode.
>> No, I get to parry it, too. No, I get to
parry it, too.
>> god, you get the parry. All
right, bring it up. I'll call it.
3 2 1
There's no way, right? He didn't do it
again.
>> [music]
>> I You see, Doug, you can't pick paper
every time.
>> Connie, you say that now.
>> treats.
But I'm still winning this game. My
turn. I'm doing call down lightning. So
we mark a random empty square. Please be
on my side. That's not that useful. I'm
going to move my pawn up, dude. I'm
trying to I'm trying to promote. Trying
to get some promotions in here. And I
got to move this guy, otherwise he's
dead.
So
we got to put him
here.
I move queen here. The end of this turn
I get to kill one of your pieces.
Players pick one of their own pieces to
die after every turn. That is bad for
you. All pawns advance one square if
it's empty, bad for you. Parry
>> [laughter]
>> I'm not doing parry again, man.
>> That might be your only choice. You
don't want to do blood sacrifice. You
have less pieces than me. I mean, you
can. It's very bad Why would Why would
blood sacrifice even be good? Like in
what scenario I wonder would [music]
that even be It [singing] would be me.
If If I had blood sacrifice right now,
I'd pick it. And because I have a bunch
of pawns, they're more likely to get
sacrificed. Oh, I see. Cuz both sides do
[music] it, not just Right. I see.
Right. Okay. Can he parry a checkmate?
Do we say that checkmates are parryable?
Cuz that's funny. I think checkmate is
parryable is funny.
>> All right, yeah. Yeah, that's funny.
Yeah.
So I have to go somewhere cuz queen is
there. Where are you in So you You're
control I have to move cuz I'm in check
with queen and you have power over that
spot?
>> Yeah. I'm screwed.
>> You might Yeah, you might actually just
be dead real soon. Do I bet it all on a
parry?
>> [laughter]
>> You probably got to bet it on parry,
dude.
>> Wait a minute. Wait a minute. I'm going
to be I just want you to know, like I'm
going to be like haha content annoyed,
but I'm also internally there's going to
be real anger if I in this position in a
chessboard lose because you parry the
checkmate and then roll some stupid
with the rule. I'm going to do
parry. I have to. Okay.
Because that just activated the the
the light the lightning No, it's a
lightning thing. I get to kill anything.
Oh, it's a kill. I didn't know it was a
kill. Okay. Uh yeah, so because of that
I get to um
point my powerful finger
Wait, can he Can you parry the
lightning? It It straight up is an
attack. That's what the text says. It's
Look, Bring up the stream. There's no
way I would go paper again, Connie. If I
did, you should go scissors. You [music]
obviously want to go scissors in the
case that I keep going paper. Yeah, I'm
going to go Yeah, he won't go paper
again. There's no way he would do that.
Okay, ready? Rock, paper, scissors,
shoot.
Okay, I knew [clears throat] it.
All right, rock, paper, scissors, shoot.
Okay.
I'll I'll do I could do this all day. 3
2 1 go.
You come on, man. All right,
take it. Take it. I don't care.
>> Lightning kills the bishop.
All right, so it is my turn. So yeah,
let's just let's just do that. So it's
not checkmate because you can just take
my bishop and then you're safe. The
problem with that is that I get to parry
it. And if the parry if the parry
succeeds, you're actually dead. Let's
pull it back up.
>> try it. We're doing it. Pull back up.
>> Connie, look at my eyes at stream, all
right? I'm going paper. I'm going paper.
You lose the game if you don't go
scissors. I'm just letting you know
that.
>> it? You mean it? I'm really going to do
that? I mean it. Just because it would
be a sick ass ending to the game on
YouTube if I accidentally went rock and
killed you. I'm going paper, okay? All
right, ready? Let's do it. Ready? Here
we go.
3 2 1
Damn.
Yeah, man. Come on, come on.
>> take bishop successfully. Yeah, I mean,
that's the only move you have.
So now I have a move that I can see
right now, which is if my queen moves
here, I That's checkmate and I win,
assuming I can beat you in rock, paper,
scissors. Honestly, I don't want to do
column swap. That's too risky. I'm not
doing board again, Christian, obviously.
That'll screw me, which means I have to
do risk it rook, which means a 50%
chance for a rook, which is good, but
then you might get a rook in the worst
case.
Okay, I will start. I will flip a coin.
I'm doing this on stream. I will call
heads.
Go.
It's tails. That's a big coin. It is
heads. Most definitely tails. Oh, he got
a rook. But let's see if you get one,
too. Connie, what's your call? Tails.
Heads.
Okay. All right. And you can clearly see
that this coin does have tails in it as
well. And I can show both sides.
Okay. Okay.
>> [laughter]
>> You pulled it You You showed the head
and then you put it down as if you were
the world's worst magician. Like it was
only head and then you just hid it.
>> Like you can clearly see that it is
There's both sides of this coin. Oh,
okay. I see. I Okay, can I see the other
side in the same frame? But did he have
a third coin that wasn't this one?
[laughter]
Okay, so I get a free rook in a random
empty square first off. So
random empty is right I will take a rook
right there. Thank you very much. So
he's going to be in E4.
I'm going to resurrect one of my guys.
How about my white bishop in F in E3.
And now you're G1 and you're a rook and
you get to go Where was it? Here? Where
is it? Where is my boy?
>> He has so many powers. Yeah, it was
right there. All right, cool, cool,
cool. There's a a million ways to kill
you, man. I'm going to move this rook up
here. If you can survive this parry,
good good luck.
This is game unless you, Connie
Robinson, can successfully parry this.
You ready?
Well, no, cuz you only move up. So you
can't
go for the kill in the same turn, right?
You moved that up. Uh I moved my You're
in checkmate right now, though. Parrying
a checkmate doesn't really make sense.
>> you moved cuz now I can move Let me move
closer Hold on. The reason I say this
>> Right, but can't I move it Oh, I But But
I'll go But can't I move one closer? Cuz
I can move and then you parry. You
understand? So I'm going to move this
way and now you get to attack cuz you
moved before. Oh. Right? Yeah, sure.
That's You moved the rook up. You moved
the rook up. That's your move. I moved
my king in. Oh, parry's gone. Oh, god
damn it. Okay, never mind. Never mind.
You're right. You're right. No, you're
right. All right, I'll do my parry now.
>> matter. Your turn is going to end.
You're going to be in checkmate. None of
this All right, do the rock, paper,
scissors. Whatever. I don't want to.
Rock, paper, scissors, shoot. Shoot. Did
you pick paper? Yeah. Oh, I Well, I
blocked it.
>> Okay, cool. So now you move.
Um I don't want to.
Ladies and gentlemen, GAME TWO GOES TO
DOUGDOUG. LET'S GO. LET'S GO. OKAY, and
let the record show, chess.com loves me.
10 gifted subs. Absolutely incredible.
>> on, man. Yeah, someone asked when will
parrying be added to chess.com? It's a
good idea. I think a lot of these rules
No reason not to add this to the
official game.
Last game. LAST GAME. LAST GAME. LAST
[screaming] GAME. CONNIE
exposed Jenkins. Game three. Here we go.
>> All right, let's go. Queen's game.
Doug's gambit. By the way, that's not
the Queen's gambit and I don't know what
the Queen's gambit is. New moves, the
enemy is routed. All enemy pieces move
one square backwards. That'd be hype.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay, down with the ship is funny. Any
capture also kills the capturing piece.
>> Going to go down with the ship.
Now go ahead and call me a dumb idiot.
If I move this forward, if you take it,
that doesn't really help you. And we're
both just wasting our turn.
>> [laughter]
>> So in retrospect, that wasn't good
because we're just wasting our turn. But
then if I do that Okay, oh, critical
strike kind of hype. Every capture has a
50% chance to capture in a random
adjacent enemy piece. That's cool. You
should pick that.
>> Yeah, I'm doing critical strike. Okay,
here's what I do. This might be stupid
and you might call me a dumb idiot. Chat
is certainly doing that right now. I
move my pawn in here, but this pawn also
dies. That capture triggers a 50% chance
to capture a random adjacent piece. I'm
calling heads right now on my coin.
Boom, boom.
And it's heads. That kills this piece
and that kills that piece. Huge play.
That coin beheads quite a lot. Connie,
the reason this app sucks is cuz I spent
four seasons studying the art of this
coin.
I feel like you should implement a coin
flip on the site.
>> So actually I did. If you scroll down,
there's a random int from one to two and
you can you can generate a random
number, but I think flipping a coin is
more hype. Yeah, I bet it is. I bet
flipping your very famous DougDoug heads
coin is very hype. That's great. You
know what? It's like we go queen for
queen. Get the out of here. I Wait,
50% chance. Flip it. Wait, flip, flip,
flip.
Flip, flip, flip, flip, flip. Show me
both sides right now. Show me both All
right, all right, all right. Here is
HERE IS HEADS.
AND HERE IS TAILS, OKAY? Now I want to
see both sides right now, Doug. And then
also you can see this coin has both of
them, [laughter] okay? Okay, do that
one.
>> going to And we're going to And we're
going to flip it. So you said you're
calling heads? it down. WAIT, I'M USING
THE RANDOM INTEGER ON THE SITE. NO, NO,
NO, NO, NO. It's not the site.
[laughter] It's not the site. It's not
the site. Look, here it is.
Heads and tails, no. No, no, no. It's
got to be a coin flip. Way too hype. All
right, Cony.
You're calling tails? Okay. This is for
the critical strike to even land, okay?
Then we find out what piece it is.
You're calling tails? Yes. Yes, tails.
Thank god. Thank god. Thank god. Here's
tails. This is a real coin. DID HE SWAP
IT? Did he change it again? Did he Did
anybody Oh my god, man. Chat, chat, do
not tell him. Okay. I didn't kill
anybody. Queen's dead, though. Okay, I
kill your queen.
No cowards. All moves must move closer
to your opponent's side of the board for
nine turns.
I'm going no cowards. I'm going to kill
this guy. Bow.
Move my horsey here. Your turn. I'm
going to push that king up a little bit.
We go check here. You do have me in
check, actually. And you have to move
forward because you have to move closer.
Yeah. Oh, but also I have to pick two
pieces in the same column and swap them.
Wait, I could just absolutely roast you.
Yeah, I'm just going to swap these two.
Or is there even something even better I
should swap it to? Wait, I can choose
who to swap? Yeah, you can pick any two.
Crap, if I wasn't in check, I would I
would have some really good options here
to just knock out a rook of yours. But,
you got to get that guy, yeah.
man. Being in check sucks. I guess I
could swap these two and then just kill
your bishop. That's probably worth
doing. Okay, I'm moving up corporate
ladder. So, I will ignore turns.
Bishop. You put him there. He go there.
And now I will move forward and I will
kill. Bishop. We'll go Go let them bring
out the horse. I can take your pawn,
dude. I'm I'm going to be honest, I'm
kind of roasting you right now. All your
pieces slide forward until they hit an
empty square.
We're in each other's faces.
Yeah. [laughter]
it, we're going to get up in their
faces. Send it. So, everything slides
up. Pawns slide up here.
Boom. Boom. I love you didn't even check
if this is going to be a good board
state for you. Now rook can move up. Now
knight moves up. Now king moves up. Now
bishop
Rook moves up. Classic game of chess,
baby. All right, it is your turn now.
So, now we're all intimate here. We are
very up close and personal right now.
Someone in chat said this is so chess.
Absolutely, man. If we had the queens
right now, though, it would get a lot
crazier. But, unfortunately, everybody
is blocked from doing anything. So,
we're just in this weird cluster. I'm
[music] going to go bishop. That's my
best play, I think. There's not really
much I can do, so I'm taking bishop. Oh,
Actually, that is bad for me.
Yeah. Oh, no. Oh, no indeed, yeah. It's
a big old no, Doug. I think the game
might be over, Douglas. I don't know how
you're determining that the game is
almost over. Okay, we'll go ahead and
make a play. Okay, so if you move your
pawn forward to take my rook, I lose the
rook and it promotes [music] to queen.
That's real bad. Moving knight here
to G or to F3 would at least mean that
if you take [music] my rook with a If
you take my rook and promote to queen, I
can at least take your rook here.
Although, then you take with pawn, which
is concerning. I could move my knight
here to get you in check so that you
can't make the move. But, [music] then
I'm just back to how it was and that
doesn't feel helpful. That is a fork,
though. I move here. You are in check.
Uh
Oh, son of a I am. And you have
to move towards the enemy, which means
your king has to move into this specific
square because this one is covered by my
pawn. So, I have to go It forces me
here.
I got a critical strike, man. You got to
go for it. Send it. Kill that pawn. I'm
not going to use critical to get the
pawn. I'm
Stop reading the chat. You're right.
You're right. Critical strike and I use
my bishop and I kill this rook. Boom.
And now we roll for the critical strike.
Two-sided [music] coin. I'm going for
heads as always.
Ow, that hurt. it's tails. Okay.
Oh, finally. Cony, I got to be honest
with you, I'm kind of hyped for this
right now. I'm invested. I got to tell
you something that is so sad. This guy's
going to go here.
And now, let's flip that coin. Let's
flip that coin. Flip it. What What's
your call for the flip? Tails. Always
tails. Always tails.
It is heads. Oof, okay. Oh, why is it
always heads? You know, to be honest, I
think I wanted it to die. Still, it's
not a good situation, man. Nope. It's
not. It ain't. So, I move forward.
You're up. you have a rule. No
cowards. All moves [laughter] must move
closer to your opponent for nine turns.
When this expires, whichever player has
more pieces on the four corner spots
gets a rook or risk it rook. 50% chance
for a free rook and I get a 25. And we
still have crit going right now for two
more turns. Damn, I got to say chess is
more hype when you smoosh the two teams
together. Yeah, this is way better. Just
saying, Cony, chat will call you a
coward if you don't pick [music] no
cowards. Oh, I'm going to pick no
cowards to play. Okay. Yeah, I'm
obviously I'm going to do no cowards.
Okay. And we're going to send this pawn.
Oh, Right? tails? We got tails. We
always go tails. Go.
It's tails.
Okay, it's random. I get to pick or is
just No, it's It's random, right? Random
adjacent piece. Tails for horse, heads
for pawn. Go. Okay, heads is pawn, tails
is horse.
Son of a it's tails. I LOSE MY
HORSE.
OH, BABY. CRIT. TAILS CHAMP, tails
champ, tails champ. Give me my queen.
Well, hold on. Do you want to be a queen
cuz you can also promote it to a knight
or a bishop or a rook. Don't disrespect
me that way. You know it's a queen. Oh,
my queen is stuck there for a while.
You're right. Oh, my You're right.
You're right. The queen can't move.
Okay, I have eight moves to GET THE
OUT OF HERE. DUDE, NO COWARDS was the
worst play you could have made. Wow,
that's bad. That's really bad. That's I
didn't want to be scared. I'm debating
whether I take your knight with my king
or I take use bishop to take here. The
reason I'm not going to use [music]
bishop to take here is cuz then he can
move his pawn in and promote. That would
be bad. So, instead, I'm moving king
here. I take that. Your turn. Okay.
Okay, I get to flip. Heads and I get a
crit.
There's no way.
Big heads roll right there. No way, man.
Wait, hold on. Illegal crit No, the crit
was active [music] during my turn. It
expired at the end of my turn. That's
valid.
Wait, but hold on. Hold on. In what
world is this not checkmate? I think
you're dead. No, I can move to the
right. No, you can't. For you see, Doug,
No. with no cowards, all moves must move
closer your opponent's side of the
board. No. So, that king has to march
forward somewhere. NO. AND BECAUSE of
that, unfortunately, on. Hold on. Hold
on. I get to look at this first. Only
pawns can be moved. That will not help
me. Pawns promote on the sixth row to
the eighth. Not helpful. You're in my
way. Every piece moves like a pawn. Not
helpful. Unfortunately,
I do believe we've come to the end of
our journey.
Cony,
congratulations, you win game three of
chess.
We got it. Make the move. Make the move.
I want to do it. I want to do it myself
with my hands. What? Move forward. I
take your pawn and Cony. OH, YEAH. LET'S
GO.
>> [screaming]
>> CINEMA. WHO WOULD HAVE THOUGHT? CHESS.
AWESOME. I thought this was
super sick. So, thanks for watching,
everybody. I have a version of what I
wrote this code and it's a goddamn mess,
dude. I cannot communicate enough how
bad the architecture ended up being. It
was a disaster. But, I I you know, I
worked really hard on this thing. I put
in a lot of time. I learned a lot and
that's all cool. Good for me. Uh brownie
points. However, somebody in our
community, Call Me Cade, went ahead and
actually made a functioning multiplayer
version of this that you can go play
right now. There's a link in the
description. There's also a link to
their source code. This is super
cool. There's a huge leap between what I
did, which is getting this like strange
kind of skeleton working versus an
actual functioning multiplayer thing. I
just think this is sick and I hope you
enjoyed this video a lot. I think we can
all agree it's all chess from here on
out. Only chess. Chess every day. Chess
every video. Chess for 100 years. We'll
see you next chess. Bye.